README.md, before:


# Retail Forecasting

## Overview

This project develops machine learning models to predict the sales of the next 8 days at a shop-product level, using a database with 3 years of historic data from a big retailer. 

It uses last generation models (LightGBM) and features massive modeling to develop multiple models at the same time.


## Challenges (wip)

- Hierarchical forecasting
- Intermittent demand
- Massive modeling
- Forecasting for several days in the future


## Results


- 1-day forecast average absolute error of less than 6 units sold.
- 8-day forecast average absolute error of 8.5 units sold.

- Created scripts for [retraining](https://github.com/adrianriverof/forecasting-retail/blob/master/03_Notebooks/03_System/08_Retraining_code.py) and [execution](https://github.com/adrianriverof/forecasting-retail/blob/master/03_Notebooks/03_System/09_Execution_code.py) of the predictive model



<!--
## Process 

-->

<!--
## Technology

-->


## [Development Notebooks](https://github.com/adrianriverof/forecasting-retail/tree/master/03_Notebooks/02_Development)

Commit message:

docs(Readme): finish challenges faced

README.md, after:


# Retail Forecasting

## Overview

This project develops state-of-the-art machine learning models (LightGBM) to predict sales for the next 8 days at a shop-product level, using 3 years of historical data from a large retailer. The system supports large-scale modeling, training multiple models in parallel.



## Challenges faced

- **Hierarchical data structure**:
we modeled sales at the **store–product level**, allowing the forecasts to reflect individual product demand in each store.  

- **Intermittent demand**: we created a variable to capture this effect and help making predictions about it.

- **Massive modeling**: to deal with having to model for multiple elements, we used the fast and light algorithm LightGBM.

- Forecasting for **several days in the future**: we use a recursive prediction. 
The model makes a prediction for the next day and then uses that prediction to estimate the following day. 


## Results

<i>For context, the average daily sales per product is around 20 units (25th-75th percentile: 6-37), but it varies greatly and depends heavily on the product.
</i>

- 1-day forecast average absolute error of less than 6 units sold.
- 8-day forecast average absolute error of 8.5 units sold.

<i> These metrics are just very rough estimates, but it is safe to say that it provides an adequate prediction of overall demand trends.
</i>

<br>
<br>


<!--
## Process 

-->

<!--
## Technology

-->

## Notebooks & Scripts

- [Development notebooks](https://github.com/adrianriverof/forecasting-retail/tree/master/03_Notebooks/02_Development)  
- [Retraining script](https://github.com/adrianriverof/forecasting-retail/blob/master/03_Notebooks/03_System/08_Retraining_code.py)
- [Execution script](https://github.com/adrianriverof/forecasting-retail/blob/master/03_Notebooks/03_System/09_Execution_code.py)
